.topic IDH_general_updates
---If enabled, MediaMonkey will check (over the internet) whether a newer version exists.
Wenn aktiviert prüft MediaMonkey (über das Internet), ob neue Versionen verfügbar sind.

.topic IDH_general_language
---Allows you to choose MediaMonkey's language. You must close and restart MediaMonkey for the change to take effect.
Erlaubt Ihnen, die Programmsprache zu wählen. Sie müssen MediaMonkey schließen und neu starten, damit die Änderung in Kraft tritt.

.topic IDH_general_tips
---If enabled, MediaMonkey displays tips every time the application is run.
Wenn aktiviert zeigt MediaMonkey bei jedem Programmstart nützliche Tipps an. 

.topic IDH_general_instance
---This option forces a maximum of one MediaMonkey window to be open at any time.
Diese Option sorgt dafür, dass zu jeder Zeit höchstens ein MediaMonkey-Programmfenster geöffnet sein kann.

.topic IDH_general_showtrayicon
---This causes the MediaMonkey icon to always appear in the system tray. If enabled, it is also possible to enable Pop-up Track info in the tray so that each time a new track plays, information about it will appear.
Dies bewirkt, dass das MediaMonkey-Symbol immer in der System-Ablage erscheint. Wenn aktiviert kann ebenfalls ein Songinfo-Popup aktiviert werden, so dass beim Anspielen eines Songs Informationen darüber eingeblendet werden. 

.topic IDH_general_minimizesettings
---By default, MediaMonkey minimizes to the taskbar. 'Minimize to tray' causes it to appear only in the System tray when minimized. The most powerful option is 'Minimize to Now Playing' , which causes the 'Now Playing' dialog to appear whenever the main application is minimized, giving you some control over your music, even when working in another application.


.topic IDH_general_closetotray
This option causes MediaMonkey to never truly close--it always runs in the background, and is always accessible via the system tray.

.topic IDH_general_taskpriority
MediaMonkey performs numerous operations such as CD Ripping, Conversion, Tagging, Volume Levelling, etc. in the background. This option sets the priority of these background tasks. By default it is set to 'Lower' so that these tasks don't slow down other operations.

.topic IDH_general_tempdirectory
Choose the temporary working directory that MediaMonkey uses. Any directory is fine, since the contents of this directory are only temporary.

.topic IDH_general_fileassociations
This allows you to select which file types will be associated with MediaMonkey, so that if the file is double-clicked, MediaMonkey will automatically run and play the file. 

.topic IDH_general_reassociatefiles
Some applications are set to 'steal' file associations, so that even if you've configured MediaMonkey to play MP3 files, the other application overides this setting. If you want to be certain that MediaMonkey will run, enable 'Re-associate file types on startup' to reset file associations each time you run MediaMonkey.

.topic IDH_confirmcopylibraryfolder
If enabled, MediaMonkey will prompt you whether to copy the entire folder, or only those contents that exist in the Library.

.topic IDH_confirmmovelibraryfolder
If enabled, MediaMonkey will prompt you whether to move the entire folder, or only those contents that exist in the Library.

.topic IDH_confirmremovalfromplaylist
If enabled, MediaMonkey will prompt you whether to remove tracks from the playlist, remove them from the playlist and the library, or delete them from the playlist, the library, and the computer system.

.topic IDH_confirmremovalfromnowplaying
If enabled, MediaMonkey will prompt you whether to remove tracks from the Now Playing list, remove them from the Now Playing list and the library, or delete them from the Now Playing list, the library, and the computer system.

.topic IDH_confirmdeletioncurrentlyplayingtrack
If enabled, MediaMonkey will prompt you whether to delete the currently playing track from the system, since doing so will cause an interruption of playback.

.topic IDH_confirmrenametoomanycharacters
When enabled, MediaMonkey will prompt you whether to proceed with a rename operation if the resulting filename contains more than the 64-character limit that is standard for a CD.

.topic IDH_player_choose
MediaMonkey allows you to use the Player that is built into MediaMonkey, or Winamp. Using the MediaMonkey player enables Volume Leveling, an advanced equalizer, and is fully integrated with MediaMonkey's Now Playing list. Using Winamp may be desired if you wish to use certain plugins that are incompatible with MediaMonkey.

.topic IDH_player_doubleclick
This determines what what the default behavior is when a Track is double-clicked or <enter> is pressed. Options are Play Now, Play Last, or Edit Properties.

.topic IDH_player_playnowplays
This determines what Tracks are played when the Play Now command is run for a single Track. By default the selected Track and others subsequent to it in the tracklist play. The alternative is that only the Selected track plays.

.topic IDH_player_numerickeypad
This controls how to enable the Numeric Keypad Shortcuts. By default, when the numeric keypad is off (the Num Lock LED is off) the shortcuts are active. To toggle the Num Lock LED, press the <Num Lock> button.

.topic IDH_player_warninaccessible
Displays a warning if a track in the Now Playing queue is inaccessible (e.g. if it's on a CD that isn't inserted).

.topic IDH_player_inputpluginconfiguration
The MediaMonkey Player supports Input plug-ins that are compatible with Winamp 2. They generally add support for new audio formats.

To install a plug-in you'll have to follow either of the following procedures:

1) If the plug-in is provided with an installer, the installer often chooses a default directory of /Program Files/Winamp. Change this to /Program Files/MediaMonkey. If you're unable to change the installation directory, you'll have to install to the Winamp directory and then manually copy the installed .dll file(s) to the Program Files/MediaMonkey/Plug-ins directory. 

2) If the plug-in is a .dll, simply copy the .dll to the Program Files/MediaMonkey/Plugins directory, and follow the instructions provided with the plug-in.

Once the plug-in is installed, you can access it from the plug-ins pane, and press the Configure button. 

.topic IDH_player_outputpluginconfiguration
The MediaMonkey Player supports Output plug-ins that are compatible with Winamp 2. They generally control how MediaMonkey outputs audio.

To install a plug-in you'll have to follow either of the following procedures:

1) If the plug-in is provided with an installer, the installer often chooses a default directory of /Program Files/Winamp. Change this to /Program Files/MediaMonkey. If you're unable to change the installation directory, you'll have to install to the Winamp directory and then manually copy the installed .dll file(s) to the Program Files/MediaMonkey/Plug-ins directory. 

2) If the plug-in is a .dll, simply copy the .dll to the Program Files/MediaMonkey/Plugins directory, and follow the instructions provided with the plug-in.

Once the plug-in is installed, you can access it from the plug-ins pane, and press the Configure button.

.topic IDH_player_dsppluginconfiguration
The MediaMonkey Player supports DSP Audio effect plug-ins that are compatible with Winamp 2. They generally enhance and/or modify the audio in some way.

To install a plug-in you'll have to follow either of the following procedures:

1) If the plug-in is provided with an installer, the installer often chooses a default directory of /Program Files/Winamp. Change this to /Program Files/MediaMonkey. If you're unable to change the installation directory, you'll have to install to the Winamp directory and then manually copy the installed .dll file(s) to the Program Files/MediaMonkey/Plug-ins directory. 

2) If the plug-in is a .dll, simply copy the .dll to the Program Files/MediaMonkey/Plugins directory, and follow the instructions provided with the plug-in.

Once the plug-in is installed, you can access it from the plug-ins pane, and press the Configure button. For DSP Audio Effect plug-ins, you can also set the order in which the plugins process the audio using the up/down arrows.

.topic IDH_player_generalpluginconfiguration
The MediaMonkey Player supports General plug-ins that are compatible with Winamp 2. They often add some entirely new functionality to the application. 

To install a plug-in you'll have to follow either of the following procedures:

1) If the plug-in is provided with an installer, the installer often chooses a default directory of /Program Files/Winamp. Change this to /Program Files/MediaMonkey. If you're unable to change the installation directory, you'll have to install to the Winamp directory and then manually copy the installed .dll file(s) to the Program Files/MediaMonkey/Plug-ins directory. 

2) If the plug-in is a .dll, simply copy the .dll to the Program Files/MediaMonkey/Plugins directory, and follow the instructions provided with the plug-in.

Once the plug-in is installed, you can access it from the plug-ins pane, and press the Configure button.

.topic IDH_player_vispluginconfiguration
The MediaMonkey Player supports Visualization plug-ins that are compatible with Winamp 2. They provide kaleidoscopic visual effects that are synchronized to the music. 

To install a plug-in you'll have to follow either of the following procedures:

1) If the plug-in is provided with an installer, the installer often chooses a default directory of /Program Files/Winamp. Change this to /Program Files/MediaMonkey. If you're unable to change the installation directory, you'll have to install to the Winamp directory and then manually copy the installed .dll file(s) to the Program Files/MediaMonkey/Plug-ins directory. 

2) If the plug-in is a .dll, simply copy the .dll to the Program Files/MediaMonkey/Plugins directory, and follow the instructions provided with the plug-in.

Once the plug-in is installed, you can access it from the plug-ins pane, and press the Configure button.

.topic IDH_player_volumeleveling_baseline
This value is used to calculate the volume leveling adjustment that appears in the tracklist. It also determines the volume to which tracks are leveled when 'Level Track Volume' is used.

.topic IDH_library_analyzevolumeunknown
This option causes the Analyze Volume command to be carried out only on tracks that do not yet have a volume coefficient calculated. Since the number of tracks analyzed does not affect volume analysis results, there is little reason to disable this function.

.topic IDH_player_volumeleveling_playback
This value is used to control playback volume for any track(s) that have been analyzed. It allows playback volume to be raised, without raising the 'Baseline Volume Level' (which would increase the possibility of clipping when using the 'Level Track Volume' function).

.topic IDH_player_volumeleveling_CD
This value is used to set the volume of Audio CDs that are burned via MediaMonkey, if volume leveling is enabled when the CD is burned.

.topic IDH_player_volumeleveling_clippingprevention
Clipping prevention ensures that volume leveling doesn't result in clipping of the audio track. It does so by limiting the volume adjustment when possible clipping is detected.

.topic IDH_library_infertrackproperties
In cases where the tags do not contain much information, MediaMonkey can get some information such as Artist, Title, or Album from the Filename if this option is enabled. Note that the inferred properties are saved in the database, but not saved to the file tags (in case the information is incorrect). Once you've verified the data, you can update the tags manually--see Synchronizing Your Tags.

.topic IDH_library_inferpropertiesfrom
Properties can be inferred from 'Filename' or 'Filename + Path'. Generally, it is better to infer from Filenames only, unless tracks are arranged in a highly organized directory structure, in which case 'Filename + Path' will yield better results.

.topic IDH_library_inferpropertiesusing
It is possible to specify whether to use 'Tags and then inferred properties', or vice versa. Generally, Tags contain more accurate information, so choosing 'Tags and then inferred properties' will import properties from Tags, and then any missing information will be imported from inferred properties. The only time one would want to use 'Inferred Properties and then Tags' is if it is known in advance that tags are inaccurate, and filenames contain more accurate data.

.topic IDH_library_getalbumtitles
This setting defines how Album Titles and Track number properties are added to the Library. Options are 'Tags only', 'Tags then Playlists', and 'Playlists then Tags'. 'Tags only' should always be used, except in cases where a music collection is arranged in such a manner that each collection of tracks has an associated playlist that defines the Album. 

.topic IDH_library_removeunderscores
This option removes underscores from Filenames when they are added.

.topic IDH_library_analyzeforduplicates
This creates a hash, a kind of digital signature, for the audio content of each track (tags are ignored), so that each track can be uniquely identified. If any two tracks are duplicates (i.e. they have matching signatures) they will appear in the Files to Edit > Duplicate Content view.

.topic IDH_library_ignoresongs
This prevents Tracks that are less than a specified size (KB) or time (seconds) from being added to the Library, since it's unlikely that you really want such files to appear in your Library.

.topic IDH_library_updatetrackinfoonrescan 
This causes all Tracks that are re-added (either manually by clicking 'Add Tracks...' or automatically via the File Monitor) to be updated--even those that already exist in the database. The effect is that if other applications have been used to modify track tags, the database will automatically update with the changes. The downside to this is that tags for any tracks that are not up to date will be overwritten with the rescanned tags (this is not usually an issue if you have configured tags to update immediately).

.topic IDH_library_updatetrackinfofaster
Enabling this option speeds up all scans subsequent to the initial one by limiting re-addition to files that have changed in size or timestamp. 

.topic IDH_library_id3tagversion
You are given the option of choosing what version of ID3 tags to use: v1, v2, or both. Generally, 'both' is usually best as it ensures compatibility with devices that only support v1 tags, and allows for the much richer set of data that can be stored in v2 tags.

.topic IDH_library_id3v2encoding
This allows you to use unicode or ascii in id3v2 tags. If you have Tracks with non-English characters, you'll want to use Unicode, however, some players may have trouble reading Unicode tags.

.topic IDH_library_updatetagsimmediately
Causes Tags to be updated immediately, as soon as changes to Track properties are made.

.topic IDH_library_modifytimestamp
This causes MediaMonkey to update the Track timestamp whenever a tag is updated. This should be enabled so that other applications reading the file are aware that a change has been made.

.topic IDH_library_unicodem3u
This causes MediaMonkey to save .m3u files in a format that preserves non-English characters. Note that some players may not support unicode .m3u playlists.

.topic IDH_library_filemonitor
The File Monitor sets the Library to update its contents automatically for Tracks contained in the specified folder(s):
1) Click Add Folder, and choose a folder 
2) Specify whether subfolders should also be monitored (generally they should) 
3) Specify whether the chosen folder should be monitored at Startup. If a folder is monitored at startup, then any changes that occured in the Folder while MediaMonkey wasn't running will be detected at startup. If the folder is not monitored at startup, then the only changes that will be detected are those that occur while MediaMonkey is running. Generally, folders should be scanned at startup, however, this slows down the application slightly at startup.

.topic IDH_library_removeunavailabletracks
Select 'Remove Unavailable Tracks' if you wish the library to be pruned of any tracks that have been moved or deleted from a monitored folder. This is extremely useful, but should only be enabled if you're confident that you'll never move Tracks to a folder that isn't monitored, this would result in the track being removed from the Library entirely.

.topic IDH_library_removeunusedartists
This causes any Artists that no longer contain any Tracks or Albums to be automatically removed from the Library. Note that this applies whether a folder is monitored or not.

.topic IDH_library_removeunusedalbums
This causes any Albums that no longer contain any Tracks to be automatically removed from the Library. Note that this applies whether a folder is monitored or not.

.topic IDH_virtualcd
You can set the following Virtual CD properties:
-The compression format that you want to use for ripping the tracks. See Help: "Ripping & Digital File Formats".
-The Directory and Filename format to be used for the new tracks.
See Help: "Ripping Tracks and Cataloguing CDs" for information about using the Virtual CD.

.topic IDH_preview
You can set the following Preview properties:
-The compression format that you want to use for ripping the tracks. See Help: "Ripping & Digital File Formats". 
-The start time and duration of each sample to be created. 
-The Directory and Filename format to be used for the Previews. 
See Help: "Creating Previews".

.topic IDH_freedbautomatic
Determines whether album information is automatically looked up when a CD is scanned.

.topic IDH_freedbinformation
Configure which server to use (username and domain are optional). The main freedb server is entered by default, although you may want to change this to a server closer to your location.

.topic IDH_freedbprotocol
Freedb connections usually use the CDDBP protocol, although you may want to use HTTP if you are having firewall related problems. If you use HTTP, you can also configure the connection via a proxy server-if you don't know the Proxy Server settings, check with your Administrator.

.topic IDH_cdrip
The defaults for CD Ripping will generally work in most configurations, although on some systems, if ripping a CD results in audio that skips, switching Read Type to Jitter Corrected Read may solve the problem.

.topic IDH_readcdtext
This causes MediaMonkey to get track properties embedded directly on an Audio CD in the CD-TEXT format when ripping the CD or adding it to the library.

.topic IDH_ontheflyencoding
This speeds up CD Ripping by encoding audio to another format as the audio is being extracted from the CD-ROM. For some drives, especially older ones, this should be disabled as it may reduce the quality of encoded files.

.topic IDH_portable_name
This name is used to identify a portable device. This must be entered before you can synchronize with a portable device.

.topic IDH_portable_drive
Choose the drive letter that is your portable device. You can verify which letter this is in Explorer. This must be entered before you can synchronize with a portable device.

.topic IDH_portable_copyformat
Choose the directory and filename format when copying tracks to the portable device.

.topic IDH_portable_m3u
Enable to copy .m3u playlists to the device whenever a playlist is copied. Choose the directory to which the .m3u files should be copied.

.topic IDH_portable_audioformats
Enable whichever formats are supported by your portable device.  Any formats that are not selected will not be copied to your device.

.topic IDH_portsynch_entireorsubset
Choose whether to synch your entire library or only a subset. This is usually based on how much space is available on your portable device.

.topic IDH_portsynch_deletenotinsynchlist
If enabled, Tracks that are on the device but not in the synchronization list will be deleted. This should only be enabled if you have a music collection that is larger than your device and you make certain to copy new files that are on your device to the Library before synchronizing.

.topic IDH_appearance_animatetree
This causes the tree in the MediaMonkey Explorer to open and close in an animated fashion. This may cause problems, though, if you are using a non-white background.

.topic IDH_apperance_friendlymasks
Disabling this option causes masks to appear as they used to in Songs-DB. For advanced users only.

.topic IDH_appearance_transparency
If you wish to display the Now Playing or Equalizer windows semi-transparently, you may configure this via transparency settings.

.topic IDH_appearance_playerskin
Select the skin that you wish to use with MediaMonkey. If you wish to select a new skin, simply add it to the /Program Files/MediaMonkey/Skins directory. Note that MediaMonkey is compatible with Winamp 2 skins, although Winamp 2 skins can be modified slightly so that MediaMonkey menus and backgrounds match the original skin. See Help: "Customizing Skins".

.topic IDH_appearance_overideskinbackground
This option causes MediaMonkey to overide the backgrounds that are included with the skins with custom backgrounds of your liking.

.topic IDH_appearance_usecustombackgrounds
You can create custom backgrounds--one for each of: the Tree, the Tracklist, and the Now Playing window.

.topic IDH_appearance_background_scroll
This enables smooth scrolling, but can cause flashing to occur depending on the background color chosen.